Ehron VonAllen (pronounced Aaron Von Allen) is an American singer in the electronic pop genre, record producer, recording artist and remixer, currently based in Hollywood, California. Born Aaron Christopher Allen, VonAllen began music in a small town of 4,000 in Walnut Ridge, Arkansas. VonAllen's first run in with music was a concert video by Depeche Mode entitled "101". After graduating from high school, he moved to Dallas, Texas, to pursue a music career instead of university or military, which were both seriously considered. While living in Texas, he played shows in the popular music district of Deep Ellum in downtown Dallas.
Ehron VonAllen is well known in the electronic/synth pop European scene and has enjoyed a career of working with some of the biggest acts of the genre. His music is accessible to fans of many different genres, due to the fact each of his albums tends to be different from the previous ones. Most are based around a concept which dictates the style of the music, lyrics and artwork. It is widely known to his fan base that he is heavily influenced by his musical idol, Alan Wilder currently of the project Recoil. In 2010, he collaborated with Wilder remixing the track "Jezebel" for Recoil released through Mute Records as a downloadable EP entitled "Want" in support of the Recoil tour, "A Strange Hour".
He is also heavily influenced by David Bowie.
His instrument of choice is the synthesizer, but his main forte is in song writing, sound design, music production and editing. As quite an achievement for an independent, on September 11, 2013, he reached the 50,000 download mark for songs being purchased from all music sources on the internet since 2003, when the downloads began being tracked. Every format of his music including CD has been marketed by his own record label and media company, Hydrology Records.
He commenced recording his intended next album, 'I Am Electrovert', in 2013, collaborating alongside Jay Gordon, frontman of the multi-platinum selling band Orgy, who has production credits with Linkin Park, Korn, Crazy Town and many others. However, as of December 2020, no recording has been released.