Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, also known as AAFH and Hamlin Fistula Hospital, is a health care hospital based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Its regional Hamlin Fistula centres provide care for women who suffer from incontinence, physical impairment, shame and marginalisation as a result of an obstetric fistula. The hospital was created by the Australian obstetrician and gynaecologists Catherine Hamlin, and her husband Reginald Hamlin, to care for women with childbirth injuries and has been in operation since 1974. It is in Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia. It is the only hospital of its kind in the world dedicated exclusively to women with obstetric fistula (a condition common in the developing world where the maternal health provisions are poor), and it treats all patients free of charge. Patients undergo surgical repair by Ethiopian and expatriate surgeons trained at the hospital's main facility in Addis Ababa. Around 93% of these patients are successfully treated.In addition to the main hospital in Ethiopia's capital, Hamlin has opened five hospitals in the Ethiopian cities of Bahir Dar, Mekele, Yirgalem, Harrar and Metu. All 6 hospitals provide a safe birthing facility where former patients who fall pregnant can have a caesarian section.  The hospital is a global centre of expertise in fistula repair, and it trains surgeons from around the world with 28 surgeons trained between 2015–2018. Hamlin says that they have "now treated 55,000 [women] and these are like ambassadors all over the countryside". Patients come to hear of the hospital primarily by word of mouth. In 2008, when the fourth clinic was opened Hamlin travelled the world to raise awareness of the effect of the condition on women in Ethiopia.
The hospitals aim to cure 4000 women annually, but Hamlin cited the World Health Organisation's estimate that there are 6000-7000 cases a year in Ethiopia alone.Since its inception visitors and supporters from all over the world have visited the hospital to see the patients and the work of the hospital.  Many of them have gone on to become fundraisers for the organisation so all the patients receive free treatment.The Catherine Hamlin Fistula Foundation (formerly the Hamlin Fistula Ethiopia (Australia)) was established in Australia to support the work of the fistula hospitals and eradicate obstetric fistula.