Addis Ababa ([adˈdis ˈabəba] (listen); Amharic: አዲስ አበባ, romanized: Ādīs Ābeba, lit. 'new flower'), also known as Finfinne (lit. "natural spring"), is the capital and largest city of Ethiopia. It also serves as regional capital of Oromia. According to the 2007 census, the city's population is estimated at 2,739,551 inhabitants. A highly developed and important cultural, artistic and financial centre, Addis Ababa is a chartered city.Addis Ababa was founded by Emperor Menelik II in 1886 as part of the late 19th-century Abyssinian conquest, and conclusive international border ratification. In 1892, he constructed imperial palace there. Prior these events, the city has served as resort town, its large mineral spring abundance attracted nobilities of the empire and led them to establish permanent settlement. It also attracted by numerous working classes by the time — the artisans, merchants— and for foreign visitors. Addis Ababa became the Empire's capital in 1889, and consecutively international embassies were opened.Addis Ababa saw wide-scale economic booming by 1926 and 1927, and an exploitation of infrastructural supply withheld by the bourgeois. Some of their ameliorations were building stone houses filled with imported European furniture, importing newly manufactured automobiles and extending banking institutions.Under Emperor Haile Selassie, the city enjoyed favorable modernization, i.e. laid groundwork of infrastructure. Road surfacing, electric power and telephone line installation, and erection of several monuments were priorities.Addis Ababa is chartered city per Addis Ababa City Government Charter Proclamation No. 87/1997 in the FDRE Constitution, partly for developmental and governance center.
Because of serving home of comprehensive international organizations such as the headquarter of African Union and United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), Addis Ababa referred to as "the political capital of Africa" for its historical, diplomatic, and political significance of the continent.The city lies a few kilometres west of the East African Rift which splits Ethiopia into two, between the Nubian Plate and the Somali Plate. The city is surrounded by the Special Zone of Oromia and populated by people from different regions of Ethiopia. It is home to Addis Ababa University. Uplifted by its high human development, Addis Ababa is known for its vibrant culture, strong fashion scene, high involvement of young people, a thriving arts scene, and for leading the fastest economic growth of any country in the world.